>> Jason Lengstorf: MDX, it doesn't
actually stand for anything I don't think.
The way that React used JSX
which gives you the ability
to write HTML inside of
your JavaScript templates.
MDX is a way to enable using React
components inside of mark down.
So it's sort of a riff on JSX is MDX.
And so
what we're gonna do is build a page, and
then once we get that page built,
and we're reading MDX, we're also
gonna write a React component and
kinda play with what MDX is capable of.
So to start, we're gonna stop our
server if we haven't already, and
we're going to install some dependencies.
So we need to get gatsby mdx
not at symbol just gatsby-mdx.
And then we also need mdx-js/mdx and
mdx-js/react.
So these are the pieces that we're gonna
need to install to get MDX up and running.
So let's go ahead and do that.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We're going
to get into our Gatsby config, and
we need to configure gatsby-mdx.
And to do that, I'm gonna add in,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Another component.
And so up till now, we've been including
all of our plugins by just name because
none of them need any configuration.
Gatsby-mdx requires a little
bit of configuration,
cuz we gotta tell it what's going on.
So what we're gonna do is
we're going to say we're
resolving gatsby-mdx and
this is a shortcut for this.
Resolve gatsby-mdx and
just typing out the name of the plugin
are functionally equivalent.
The reason that we're doing the resolve
here is because we also want to pass
in options, and that's gonna be an object.
And the option that we
want to pass is what
layout do we wanna use in our MDX files.
We wanna be able to use this header and
shared footer.
So I'm going to set up a default,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Layouts option.
And I want the default one to be,
we're gonna use require resolve so
that we get the path name,
the absolute path name.
And we're gonna get source,
components and layout.
And so this is going to give us
any MDX files that we load will
be loaded into the layout template for us.
So we don't have to set that up or
deal with it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Then,
we're going to just create an MDX file.
So in pages, I'm gonna create a new
file and let's make this a contact page.
And instead of a JS,
I'm gonna call it contact.mdx.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then inside of it
let's just tell people how to contact us.
So let's say,
let's see you can get in touch with
me,
>> Jason Lengstorf: By opening the nearest
window and yelling out of it,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Real loud.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Let me turn on
text wrapping so that you can see.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
I'm gonna save this.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so then,
>> Jason Lengstorf: I'm gonna run develop,
and assuming I didn't typo anything,
it's just gonna boot up, okay?
And now, I should be able to visit
a contact page, there we go.
So now that we've installed the plugin,
the plugin is looking for
MDX files in the pages directory.
And anything that we add
there is just gonna work.
And one immediate advantage here
is that there's no ceremony here.
If we want to add a heading and
a paragraph
tag,
>> Jason Lengstorf: There's a lot of extra
setup in a React component
that just goes away in here.
But what if we wanna add
some kind of interactivity?
That's the whole reason of using MDX
is because we wanna do something.
So I want to create a way for
people to wave.
So I want somebody to be able
to wave at me from my home page.
So let's build a component to do that.
So let's go up into our components.
We're gonna create a new file, and
we're gonna call this wave.js.
And this one is gonna
be a React component,
we're gonna use a little bit of state.
So we're gonna use the use state hook,
and react.
We wanna be able to style this up a bit,
so
let's do the css prop from emotion core.
And then I'm gonna call
this component wave.
It's not gonna take any props.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then down here,
I'm going to export default wave.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So inside of this
component, we wanna do, basically,
the goal of this component is I want
somebody to be able to click a button and
it will tell them that they waved, and
I wanna know how many times they wave.
So we wanna keep track of how many waves
have happened, cuz really what I'm looking
for is I want people to be yelling out
the nearest window and doing this, right?
So that's what we're going for.
So let's, let's set this up we're
gonna do waves and set waves.
And that's going to equal use state, and
by default they have a wave,
so the number is 0.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then we're
also gonna set up some labeling here.
So I wanna be aware of whether or
not we need a plural version of waves.
So let's set up a label, and
that is going to be template train,
and we'll use the wave emoji.
We did use emoji actually
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
you've got the wave emoji, and
then I'm going to set in the waves.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then depending
on whether or not waves equals 1.
I'm going to either say wave or waves.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
that's my label component.
So now that we've got that,
I can just send back a button.
>> Jason Lengstorf: My button
is going to hold the label.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
then I'm gonna set two props on this.
The first one is gonna be some styles.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
the styles that I wanna send our,
let's just make this noticeable.
So our background is
gonna be rebeccaPurple.
And our border is none, so that we get
rid of the defaults borders that happen.
We'll make the color white so
we have enough contrast with the text.
And lets make the text just a little
bit bigger so we'll do 1.2rem.
And the next prop that we need
is gonna be a click handler.
So once somebody clicks this button,
what happens?
So let's set an onClick and we will tell
it to set the waves, 2 waves plus 1.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
so this is our component.
It is set up to track
the number of clicks and
tell us how many times somebody has waved.
So to use this we can just go
back into our MDX component.
And I'm going to add a new section for
this.
Let's have an H2 say or
you can wave to me,
just click this button to
simulate a friendly wave.
And then we need to figure out
how to click the button in and
then let's add a little disclaimer.
So please note that I may not wave back.
This is because I am very far away.
And probably didn't see
you click this button.
So how do we get our
wave component in here?
Really what we want,
is we wanna be able to just type wave.
And really that's all we have to do.
We just have to import it at the top.
So we can import wave from,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Components/wave.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And we don't need
the extension, we can just use that.
So now, when I save this,
>> Jason Lengstorf: It's gonna hot reload.
We can see our button in here,
and if I click it,
it's gonna say how many times I've waved.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And that's the power
of MDX is there's no wackiness involved,
it's just writing some mark down.
And then if you wanna use React,
you just write some React.
And what's really powerful about this too
is let's say I wanted to do something
custom.
I'll do, let's say, a div and
we'll do a style.
And set the background to,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Red or something.
And then I wanna add some content in here,
if I write like regular
mark down,
>> Jason Lengstorf: It
still reads that as mark
down inside of the JSX.
Now, importantly,
you have to leave that extra space,
cuz otherwise it won't parse it.
So you do need to have a full line
break to get that JSX to keep
the markdown parts inside.
But,
>> Jason Lengstorf: There we go,
now it's working.
I think I had a stray space in there.
So basically this is something
that's really flexible,
where you can do a combination
of markdown and React.
This is really useful, for
example if you wanna use like images
where you can use the markdown syntax for
displaying the image, but
you can wrap it in a React component.
That will add a figure caption or
additional,
maybe you wanted to add a gallery
where you can show thumbnails and
click them to show the full size version.
There's a lot of flexibility here.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
that's great for a contact page.
But what if we wanna use this for
something else?
What if we want to write our blog in MDX?
And that's what we're gonna
do in the next section.
So at this point you would
be checking out, let's see,
we just finished, step three MDX.
And we're gonna start moving into
step four which is the the MDX blog.